# CIS1051-Final-Project---Emergency-Room
## Project Overview and Challenges
I deciced to name my project ER rush since the main bases of my game is to stabilize all of your patients to win. I created this third person emergency room simulator in Unreal Engine 5.6 In this game, the player takes the role of an emergency care provider and must quickly assess and treat patients using interactive tools. 
For this project, I created an interactive patient treatment system where players can select patients individually and use medical tools such as an oxygen tank, a defribrillator, and bandages from a first aid kit. In addition to the treatment system, I designed the emergency room environment using both shapes and images as well as imported assets from FAB through unreal engine. I also implemented a third person controller, created UI elements for player feedback, and built a main menu and win screen to help better simulate a real gameplay experience.
I think one of my biggest challenges was creating the patient interaction system and getting used to blueprint logic. I had to take things slowly to make sure code was actually working because moving too fast something would break and I would have to trace back through code and sometimes start over. I started with getting the player to first correctly select the patients and store that selection and then I could move into applying the correct treatment through seperate tool interactions which took a lot of testing. I spent a lot of time focusing on click interactions and communication betweenn differect actor blueprints as well. Suprisingly enough the easiest node to place after troubleshooting so much became the Is Valid function and printing strings.
The most enjoyable part of this project was seeing the game become interactive and watching everything come together. Once I got the patient selection and treatment systems working together, the project started becoming very rewarding and the extra details I added went smoother. The blueprint logic took A LOT of getting used to but with more time came more understanding. The easiest part which was not very easy at all was designing the room details in the end and using FAB to add things like tool carts and hospital beds to get a more realistic feel. I really want to continue using unreal in the future to make more games as I already use Epic games to play fortnite and other video games and would love to try making my own.
## Demo Video
https://youtu.be/QYJYXIbi_Jo
## Notes
Large decorative and environment assets were left out of my repository due to the large file size so I have a google drive link with the full files below. 
Google Drive link: https://drive.google.com/file/d/1Uc3o1vRm3rXxrRtbrHvgcjZz0EcZBM3h/view?usp=sharing 
